---
layout: default
---

# MY FIRST PROJECT ASSIGNMENT IDEA
## FAQ CHATBOT!
# Project Overview: 
<p> My first project would be a basic Chatbot. My intention will be to gain a basic understanding of developing a basic FAQ Chatbot. There are some free courses for beginners available online, on how to build a basic Chatbot, and some more in-depth courses that I could get involved with online too, as well as some books I am looking at purchasing online on the subject. Depending on the complexity of what a project like this would involve, I would try to start off with something very small and basic, since I am such an extreme beginner. It would be of value and benefit to my small side business hairdressing from home, to successfully develop a FAQ bot that I could use in my day-to-day life, cutting down on the time I spend replying to messages and setting appointments would greatly improve my productivity.
<h1> Motivation: </h1>
<p> Learning to make a simple FAQ Chatbot would be of value and benefit to my home business, <a href= "https://www.facebook.com/Amys-Dreadlock-Creation-Maintenance-Service-892928910730682/">Amys Dreadlock Creation & Maintenance Service</a>. I have been in the business for over 15 years and find myself regularly answering the same questions when responding to clients. Automated response bots are the way of the future, FAQ chatbots would likely benefit all businesses and help their users access their services. I predict FAQ bots will only continue to rise in popularity, automated services are taking over boring repetitive human jobs at an unprecedented rate. Users will be delighted by any service that can give them instant responses 24/7. It is potentially a huge and profitable business opportunity to learn to develop a basic FAQ Bot. </p>
<h1> Description: </h1>
<p> As a beginner, I would attempt to create a basic bot such as a Facebook Chatbot for my <a href= "www.Facebook.com">Facebook</a> Business Page. The bot could provide useful tips and information such as what to bring to an appointment, how to prepare for their appointment, care for their new hairstyle, what hair products to use and avoid, how often maintenance is recommended, as well as accepted payment methods. Having a FAQ bot that could effectively deliver all the information a client would need prior to making an appointment would save an amazing amount of time managing my small business admin work.</p>
<p> A bot could effectively offer & deliver all the information that clients don’t know that they need to know about, that will help a client obtain the look they want to achieve, what work is involved to maintain it, and what is realistic for the client to expect for their hair type. A FAQ Chatbot could effectively deliver all the information about the different services that my business offers and be a good opportunity to cross-sell my handmade items such as wool-wrapping, beading, braiding, and fancy styling. The Chatbot should have basic intelligence, such as knowing when to deliver information, and when not to. It should not be so aggressively informative that it becomes annoying or demanding.</p>
<p> It would be beneficial to present automated information in a way such as, “Would you like to learn more about _____?” and offer multiple-choice selections the client can choose from. The messenger service should easily identify itself as being a bot, to avoid any confusion with clients who may not realize they’re talking to an automated service. It should be very clear how to Exit or Stop so the bot does not elicit unwanted communications when the client is trying to request something else. There should be options provided, “Would you like to speak to a human?” and it should be easy to navigate to my contact details and provide a service standard for my response, within 2-30 business days (no typo’s there, I’m a busy woman). A good bot should be able to understand basic commands and exit easily so clients are not harassed by unnecessary interaction.</p>
<p> Texting to a computer that doesn’t understand what you are saying, and over-delivers unnecessary information could be bombarding and confusing to a client or very aggravating, so it would have to be tested thoroughly to ensure ease of use and that it is providing practical handy tips, and delivers only what it is requested to. In my opinion, a good bot should also have a sense of humor and a bit of sass, in case anybody gets cheeky with the service. It must also be careful not to offend anybody. A bot may have the illusion of simplicity in offering information and delivering responses, but I perceive there would be a lot to learn and many hurdles to overcome to create a smart and intuitive service that delivers a satisfactory customer experience.</p>
<h1> TOOLS & TECHNOLOGIES REQUIRED: </h1>
<li>A Computer</li>
<li>Online Access</li> 
<li>Online Chatbot forums for help and assistance </li>
<li>Online tutorials </li>
<li>a Chatbot building tool </li>
<li>a Chatbot UI (User Interface), to create the design and layout of the chatbot software interface </li>
<li>a chatbot UX (user experience), to determine how users interact with the chatbot and how they experience it</li>
<p> I might look at using the free software Tidio to create a chatbot. You can pay for premium access, but it does also offer a free version. It seems simple to download and install, and there are dedicated internet forums to reach out to for assistance.
I am also looking at a book on e-bay about basic AI programming for beginners, using Python. </p>
<p> There are also some online guides available for beginners. <a href="https://www.python.org/about/gettingstarted/">Python For Beginners</a>  <p>
 & Online tutorials for Tidio <a href= "https://www.tidio.com/lp/chatbots/?utm_source=bing&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=435854874&utm_content=&utm_term=tidio%20chatbot&a_bucket=sem&a_type=brand&a_source=bing.com&a_v=2&a_g_campaignid=435854874&a_g_keyword=tidio%20chatbot&a_g_adgroupid=1338107214022807&a_g_creative=&msclkid=eafa01321c9413be5c466384beba9c3f">Be there for every conversation with AI-fueled chatbots</a>

  
<h1> SKILLS REQUIRED: </h1>
- Basic knowledge of where to start and what to do. 
<a href= "www.google.com">Google</a> contains the most excellent foundation of knowledge right at our fingertips. There are How-To Guides everywhere online, on <a href= "www.YouTube.com"</a>, and on developers’ websites, also there are templates available on <a href= "https://www.tidio.com/lp/chatbots/?utm_source=bing&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=435854874&utm_content=&utm_term=tidio%20chatbot&a_bucket=sem&a_type=brand&a_source=bing.com&a_v=2&a_g_campaignid=435854874&a_g_keyword=tidio%20chatbot&a_g_adgroupid=1338107214022807&a_g_creative=&msclkid=eafa01321c9413be5c466384beba9c3f">Tidio</a> with pre-written chatbot scripts to help you get started. Tidio is highly customizable, and if I apply myself to learn the User Interface, I think I could teach myself with the tools available online. The website states that you don’t have to have any programming knowledge or prior experience to create a chatbot and there are many tutorials to guide one through the process. 
I hope that I will learn the basic skills required during the Introduction to Programming course as part of the Bachelors of IT I'm studying.
This course will be a good foundation of knowledge to begin in a career course and further studies involving Programming and AI.
<h1> OUTCOME: </h1>
<p> If the basic Chatbot is a success, it could increase the productivity of my own business, as well as provide a highly profitable opportunity to market the tool to other dreadlock makers, or of course tailor more bots to suit a range of different salons or other businesses. Time is money and responding to messages can be time-consuming and annoying. More time could be spent doing paid work if clients were able to receive 24/7 replies, it would create a more satisfying customer experience and a more reliable and professional business reputation. Learning this tool and creating chatbots could be used to help any business. The knowledge from this course in IT, and the tools we are learning for web development and coding, helping me take these first steps to make a Chatbot, might bring me closer to the Sentient Google Robot, or me creating the perfect Bedtime Story <strike>husband</strike>.. OOPS, I mean robot! </p>
<br>
<br>
<br>
references:
<p> https://www.python.org/about/gettingstarted/ </P>
<p> https://www.tidio.com/lp/chatbots/?utm_source=bing&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=435854874&utm_content=&utm_term=tidio%20chatbot&a_bucket=sem&a_type=brand&a_source=bing.com&a_v=2&a_g_campaignid=435854874&a_g_keyword=tidio%20chatbot&a_g_adgroupid=1338107214022807&a_g_creative=&msclkid=eafa01321c9413be5c466384beba9c3f </p>
